All right let's go ahead and add in all that detail to our eye.
Now it's important to remember that you keep your pencils sharpen.
There are a few cases where you might want to double pencil to do shading but for the most part you
always want your pencil to be very sharp.
So let's go ahead and get started.
So the first thing we're going to start off with is we're going to start off with the main part of the
art.
This is going to be the focal point of the eye.
So we really want to focus on this.
So I'm going to start off by first and darkening this area even further so now I'm pressing pressing
pretty hard with my pencil and I'm just darkening that eyelash edge.
Now I know we don't have any eyelashes in there right now.
But for now we're just going to Durcan that edge then I'm going to come in here and start Durkan this
top area and what I'm going to do is a mystery shaping my highlight or reflection whatever you want
to call it.
But one of the highlights or reflection in the eye is is it's just a reflection of what's happening
off in front of it.
So over here this might be the skyline of a city in this highlight area is the actual Skop.
So when you are thinking about reflections you've got to think about the things that are surrounding
that object and that's what's going to be reflected in the eye.
Whatever is white or really bright is going to be reflected on that.
So and sometimes you don't have to necessarily show what that actual reflection is.
You just have to take that into account and that will make your reflections look a lot more realistic.
So I'm going to go ahead and continue to darken this area.
The more contrast the better your artwork is going to look.
And I can go ahead and start darkening in this area also.
So you'll see we're creating a lot of contrast between this part of the eye and the why did I we were
also creating a lot of contrast between the outer edge of our eye and the inner part of our eye and
will probably darken this just a little bit.
But we don't want to Durgan it too much.
We want to keep that pretty bright so we keep that contrast.
Now if you're doing a brown eye you actually would want to darken this area.
In this case the eye is probably blue or green.
So we're going to keep it pretty light
and we can go ahead and start adding some more of that line.
Ditto for the muscle
and we can go ahead and Durkan our pupil
and then what we want to do is I want to add an edge to my muscle.
So since this is a muscle it's going to end its current around into this whole ring here.
And so we're going to get a top edge just like we get on the bottom of our eyelid.
We're going to get that on the edge of our muscle.
So the way I'm going to show that is by darkening around this area but leaving a light edge around this
part of the eye and you want to keep that white edge pretty thin but just enough that you can see what's
going on there.
So
that makes it look a lot more realistic.
Now let's go ahead and continue to darken this part of the eye.
Want to make this reflection a little bit smaller
and depending on how bright or how white something is that's being reflected in the eye that's going
to determine how light the reflection is.
So over here this area right here might be a little bit darker than this area because that might be
buildings right there or that might be a car or something and this might be pure sky.
And so that's going to be a lot brighter.
So don't go ahead and Durcan that area just a little bit and keep this area completely white.
And will continue to add in more contrast conduct these during these shadow lines that create or muscle.
Now let's go ahead and move on to something else because like I said we don't want to get too focused
on one area at one time.
We want to be working on everything pretty close to the same time.
And then we keep working and working and working it over and over again.
So let's move on to something else so we're adding a little bit more shadow over here a little bit there.
And we can add some more shadow on this edge.
We can also start adding some more shadow on to the light of our high
that's some more of us here also.
Them darken and thicken the shadow on this edge just like so you want to soften that too so it's not
such a hard line during this area and thicken it too.
It can darken the shadow over here.
Also
Then let's go ahead and add some detail here to the eyebrowed.
So the way you draw hair on an eyebrow is just with really quick strokes and you want to make sure that
the hair lines are going in the correct direction.
So starting off here we're going to have them going sort of up and then curving over so like that and
you see how I'm pushing hard.
And then just quickly flicking it off.
I'm going to switch over to sharpen pencil
to just like so and then as we get over here the lines are going to become straight.
So rather than starting straight up and then curve over we're just going to have them going straight
over like so then we're going to do the same thing over here.
But they're going to be going in a down direction.
So just like self
and then over here on this top area we're also going to have some that are coming at this angle.
But up here.
So we'll start like this.
Come over
perfect next.
Let's go ahead and darken this eyelet area.
So go ahead and add some darker shadow into there.
Durkan this line Durkan that right there might even add a little bit more sheeting in there seam on
this side.
And then we might add some more shooting up here too.
And then I'm going to circle this bottom hedge and now the next thing we want to do is we want to add
some eyelashes in there because right now the ice is pretty bare.
So let's go ahead and add those in now.
Eyelashes are a very interesting thing to add because a lot of people do them incorrectly.
So I'm going to teach you how to correctly add in your eyelashes on and on.
So we're going to start with the top eyelashes.
Now the thing to understand about eyelashes is that they're in perspective.
So they're not just lines that come up like so well over here in this area they're going to come off
like so.
But when you look at them on this middle area they're actually going to do sort of curving so they're
first going to come down off the island and then they're going to come back up like so.
So they'll come down and curve and then come back up.
Smith over here they'll come down and curve and then come back up.
And the further towards the edge they get the more you're going to see that rather than looking straight
on on them.
So like right about here it's actually almost just going to be a line that comes straight down and then
back up over here you're going to see the curve but it's going to be going in the opposite direction.
So it's going to curve down and then come back up the curve down and then come back up.
You want to try to get those as curved as possible.
It was kind of a bad curve right there but it'll work for now.
So we're going to continue to do this and we want to double these up so in each eyelash we want to go
ahead and add two eyelashes to each one.
And we want them to sort of cross so it might come like this.
And then another one might come right there and another one might come right about there.
Then another one there and this guy will get a second one and that one will get a second one.
This one will get a second one and that one will get them.
So now we're how the base for our eyelashes.
Let's go ahead and move onto the ones down here.
And you'll also notice that I'm pushing really hard.
And then just like the hair on our eyebrow we're going to just look it off.
So we'll push hard and then we're going to pull it off.
Push hard.
We're going to foot it off push or pull it off just like so.
And the reason why we're doing that is because it allows us to quickly get that nice curved line.
So as we get up here we're going to go straight on view of it and then over here see a little bit more
of that curve but going in the other direction now we want to double these up
great now we can go ahead and start adding more eyelashes.
Not that we have the base.
Now the reason why you want to add these bases and spread them out because this is going to give you
the general direction of where eyelashes should be.
So if you're adding them and you don't really have to think about it over here.
I know it needs to kind of match between these two so he's be like so and over here I know when he's
come down like so and come up like that.
So I don't really have to think about it too much.
Where the direction is and what the perspective is.
So I might not know when I get there.
I'll just keep adding these in where I feel like though be good.
You can also go over some of these again just to get a darker edge on it.
And you want him to start out that are at the bottom and then get thinner as they get to the top so
you can add that in by hand.
Also
all right.
Now let's go ahead and have a look at our eye and see if there's anything else we want to change.
I think it's looking a little bit too light in some areas.
So what I'm going to do is go ahead and add a little bit more shadowing.
So places where we want to have more shadowing is like on this topic area
and I also want to add some more shadowing up here.
So go ahead and add that in
in like I said this is what I'm talking about.
Drawing is very much about working.
You're drawing over and over again and adding more and more detail every time you go around and add
detail.
And then I'm going to add in some more here and here.
Durcan this bottom area also
great.
Now the last thing I want to do is I want to add the reflection of my eyelashes.
But on the actual eye itself.
Now the reason why we're going to have this is because the eye is actually going to be picking this
up.
The actual eyelash itself.
And that's why you're going to see it on the actual reflection.
Now it's not going to be a reflection.
It's going to be a lack of a reflection.
So like for example vis eyelash Rick here it is going to be reflected right there like so we can do
that again over here.
And basically we're just going to redraw the eyelashes.
But on the actual white part of our eye now is not going to show up in all places but it will show up
in some of the places especially over here in this white area of the reflection.
So you can see that right there you see those guys right there.
Great.
Now I'm going to take my research and erase some of that because I think I got a little bit too much
of the eyelashes in there.
Perfect.
All right.
So our eyes basically go on.
So your first assignment for this course is to draw this up.
Now I know it's probably going to be really difficult for some of you and for a lot of you probably
won't look this good.
That's OK.
You're going to learn a ton in this course.
And by the end you're going to be able to draw this.
I and other look way way better than your first try.
So go ahead and try this and then if you feel comfortable with it you can go ahead and post your eye
drawn to the Q&A section of the course or to the Facebook group.
Now I'm not going to make you post this just because I know that for some of you it can be embarrassing.
But later in the course you want to make sure that you start posting your work.
That way you can start sharing your progress with people and it will very much motivate you.
Thanks for watching this lecture and I really look forward to seeing you in the next one.
Well we're going to start going over the basics of wine and we'll even look at our drawing and see how
you use the line in this strong.